Units I've made for the Astra Militarum (Imperial Guard). Pick your poison.
Yes, this is a very uncreative name.

[h1]Thoughts[/h1]
While I'm here, might as well jot down the thought process behind my mods. Feel free to skip this text.

If I'm going to add a unit, there should be some sort of purpose; ideally, it fills a niche beyond a simple weapon swap. The main things I consider when adding a unit are:
[olist]
[*] If I'm interested in the lore 
[*] If someone else has already done it (and if so, if I think I can do anything more interesting)
[/olist]
For the first point, that means basically everything is Imperial Guard infantry lol.

[h2]Balance[/h2]
I try to keep things somewhat balanced based on vanilla (which in itself is not very balanced lol, but it works as a starting point). I play PvE FFAs with extra enemies but stronger defenses. Since fighting AI emphasizes stacking promotions and putting the enemy through a meat grinder instead of constantly trading up with your troops being the meat, I don't worry too much about precise numbers. With a bunch of level 10 troops, differences aren't so drastic. PvE also means I'm not worried about making them really competitively viable. I can pursue strategies such as combined arms with heavy transports dropping in troops after pushing with tanks without getting crushed by a wave of one type of unit from a human player (which is a different kind of fun I don't have anything against).

[h2]Research[/h2]
I also dislike adding research technologies unless there's no other option. The research tree, as... odd it can be at times, has a general flow with a lot of opportunity costs. Instead, I'd rather piggy back off techs that are thematically appropriate. For example, let's look at the Armageddon Steel Legion. The APDS-6a Defender is neat, but it's not exactly a game changer, especially not when compared to the Hydra in the same research tier. Flavor is good, but the cost of researching means the unit has to be more powerful to justify researching it, and that can conflict with how I want the unit to play. In this case, it's supposed to be a stopgap, not an actual tank. Having to fully research a stopgap feels terrible, and I wouldn't want to do it when playing.
There are a few units that might've been better as a separate research to make it more of a conscious decision to specialize, but I also dislike having a cluttered research tree. It's even worse with later tier research since they're so expensive, so even if it's awkward, I still decided against adding researches (such as with the Maccabian Janissaries). Oh well! I tried seeing if there was a way I could make them cheaper if you researched something else in the tier, but I don't think that's possible. If I said "fuck it" and made it cheaper completely, it makes unlocking later tiers easier, and imo that's not something a unit mod should do.