There's a decent amount of lore on the Valhallans, mainly in the Ciaphas Cain books. Unfortunately, I have not read those yet, so I had to rely on wikis for information (I'll get around to reading those eventually). That was enough for the overarching vision, but I wanted to fill in some of the details. Rather than getting the books now and flipping through them just for this, I thought it'd be interesting to take inspiration in another way.

Looking at their general culture and aesthetics, they're pretty clearly influenced by the Red Army (more specifically, how the Red Army was portrayed in media). Given that, I blended real aspects of history with exaggerations from pop culture. Considering the depth of information available on this subject, I focused on World War II (The Great Patriotic War) so I wouldn't spend too long getting sidetracked. 
This is where most of the custom weapons and flavour text comes from, plus a few units. I was a bit heavy-handed with this inspiration, but I generally leaned towards keeping this as the "40k Valhallans with Soviet inspiration" mod instead of making it the "literally the entire Red Army teleported into space" mod (although that would've been funny). 

Most of the early game units came from lore, but I wanted to expand upon that and add some elites. The heavy gunners were first, since I thought having another early anti-air option would be fun. Same idea with the anti-tank riflemen; even though they're similar to Krak Missile Launchers, the idea of having a wall of men magdumping anti-tank rifles at close range was too funny. However, I also wanted to somewhat maintain the semblance of balance, so some concessions were made (e.g. Soviets and Valhallans liked mortars for their rapid deployment abilities, but having a non-heavy indirect fire explosive, even with overall nerfed accuracy, ended up being stupidly broken, especially with hero buffs).
When you hear "Valhallans," you think of Ciaphas Cain and Jurgen. You'll also notice that they're not included here, because Heroes of Legend does it great already. Checks from this mod include them, but there's no specific interaction with them.
Chenkov is from the lore, but The Red Hammer isn't. I just made that up because I was painting a Leman Russ and thought it'd be funny if I got Soviet tanks for any Valhallans (if I decided to get any). I changed my mind and decided I'd rather kitbash the infantry with Bolt Action or something and use regular 40k vehicles. Then I thought it'd be funny to have a Hammer armored regiment attached to a Sickle infantry regiment. Which ultimately led to having the star (hehe) of the show being a Banehammer named The Red Hammer.